
                       Surrogafier v1.9.0b Documentation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Table of Contents
  ---------------------

  Introduction

  I: How to Operate this Application
    I.a: Installation

    I.b: Server Side Configuration
     I.b.i:     Basic Config
     I.b.ii:    Advanced Config
     I.b.iii:   Labels
     I.b.iv:    Style
      I.b.iv.a: STYLE_URL_FORM
      I.b.iv.b: STYLE

    I.c: Using Surrogafier

    I.d: But Wait...

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Introduction
----------------

Surrogafier is a 3 tier web proxy with other various features.  The next section
describes how to install and operate this proxy.

  I. How to Operate this Application
--------------------------------------

    I.a: Installation
  ---------------------

Copy the PHP file into a directory that Apache  or any other PHP enabled web
server (with PHP installed and enabled on it), then access it as you would any
other PHP script on said server.


    I.b: Server Side Configuration
  ----------------------------------

If there is something you are wanting to change about the proxy, chances are
there is a configuration option that can do it for you.  If everything is hunky
dory to you, then you can skip this section.

To see the configuration options, edit the PHP file with your editor of choice,
and at the top there is a series of configuration options you can edit.  These
configuration options are described in detail below.

As of Surrogafier 1.9.0b, you can create a config file for all the options you
want.  This file is to be named the same as the file the proxy is stored as,
with an appended '.conf'.  So if you have it saved as 'index.php', the config
file is 'index.php.conf'.  A good way to start is to copy the proxy over and delete everything after the config portion.


I.b.i: Basic Config

  DEFAULT_SIMPLE                - Default to simple mode when the page is
                                  loaded.
                                  (default value: false)

  FORCE_SIMPLE                  - Force the page to always be in simple mode
                                  (no advanced mode option).
                                  (default value: false)

  SIMPLE_MODE_URLWIDTH          - Width for the URL box when in simple mode
                                  (CSS "width" attribute).
                                  (default value: 300px)

  DISABLE_POST_COOKIES          - Disables POST and COOKIES for a much leaner
                                  script, at the expense of functionality.
                                  (default value: false)

  INCLUDE_MAIN_HEADER           - Header file to include for the proxy main
                                  page.
                                  (default value: null string)

  INCLUDE_MAIN_FOOTER           - Footer file to include for the proxy main
                                  page.
                                  (default value: null string)

  INCLUDE_URL_HEADER            - Header file to include for the proxy URL form
                                  page.
                                  (default value: null string)

  DEFAULT_TUNNEL_IP             - Default value for tunnel server.
                                  (default value: null string)

  DEFAULT_TUNNEL_PORT           - Default value for tunnel port.
                                  (default value: null string)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_TUNNEL          - Should the tunnel fields be displayed? "true"
                                  value here will force the defaults above,
                                  disallowing user input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_USER_AGENT            - Default value for User-Agent.
                                  (default value: null string)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_USER_AGENT      - Force the default value of the user agent
                                  field, and disallow user input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_URL_FORM              - Default value for "Persistent URL" checkbox.
                                  (default value: true)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_URL_FORM        - Force the default value of the
                                  "Persistent URL" field, and disallow user
                                  input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_REMOVE_COOKIES        - Default value for "Remove Cookies" checkbox.
                                  (default value: false)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_REMOVE_COOKIES  - Force the default value of the
                                  "Remove Cookies" field, and disallow user
                                  input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_REMOVE_REFERER        - Default value for "Remove Referer Field"
                                  checkbox.
                                  (default value: false)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_REMOVE_REFERER  - Force the default value of the
                                  "Remove Referer Field" field, and disallow
                                  user input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_REMOVE_SCRIPTS        - Default value for "Remove Scripts" checkbox.
                                  (default value: false)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_REMOVE_SCRIPTS  - Force the default value of the
                                  "Remove Scripts" field, and disallow user
                                  input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_REMOVE_OBJECTS        - Default value for "Remove Objects" checkbox.
                                  (default value: false)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_REMOVE_OBJECTS  - Force the default value of the
                                  "Remove Objects" field, and disallow user
                                  input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_ENCRYPT_URLS          - Default value for "Encrypt URLs" checkbox.
                                  (default value: false)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_ENCRYPT_URLS    - Force the default value of the "Encrypt URLs"
                                  field, and disallow user input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_ENCRYPT_COOKIES       - Default value for "Encrypt Cookies" checkbox.
                                  (default value: false)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_ENCRYPT_COOKIES - Force the default value of the
                                  "Encrypt Cookies" field, and disallow user
                                  input.
                                  (default value: false)

  DEFAULT_ENCODE_HTML           - Default value for "Encode HTML" checkbox.
                                  (default value: false)

  FORCE_DEFAULT_ENCODE_HTML     - Force the default value of the
                                  "Encode HTML" field, and disallow user
                                  input.
                                  (default value: false)

  BLOCKED_ADDRESSES      - Formats for address blocking are as follows:
                             1.2.3.4     - plain IP address
                             1.0.0.0/16  - subnet blocking
                             1.0/16      - subnet blocking
                             1/8         - subnet blocking
                             php.net     - domain blocking

                           The default blocked addresses are:
                             '10/8','172/8','192.168/16','127/8','169.254/16'

                           These are blocked by default since they are reserved
                           for local and internal purposes.  If I have missed
                           some, or if I have one of these mistaken, please
                           email me.

                           For information on the format of arrays in PHP,
                           please visit:
                           http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.array.php


I.b.ii: Advanced Config

The following options alter the way documents are parsed on the page, and how
the internals of the script actually function.

ONLY EDIT THIS STUFF IF YOU REALLY KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING!

  MAXIMUM_URL_LENGTH - 500 is the most reasonable number I could come up with
                       as a maximum URL length limit.  I ran into a 1200+
                       character long URL once and it nearly melted the
                       processor on my laptop trying to parse it.  Honestly,
                       who needs this long of a URL anyway?
                       (default value: 500)

  TIME_LIMIT         - Time limit in seconds for a single request and parse.
                       (default value: 30)

  DNS_CACHE_EXPIRE   - Time limit in minutes for a DNS entry to be kept in the
                       cache.
                       (default value: 10)

  MEMORY_LIMIT       - Maximum memory usage, as specified by memory_limit in
                       php.ini.
                       (default value: '16M')

  GZIP_PROXY_USER    - Use gzip (if possible) to compress the connection
                       between the proxy and the user
                       (less bandwidth, more CPU).
                       (default value: false)

  GZIP_PROXY_SERVER  - Use gzip (if possible) to compress the connection
                       between the proxy and the server
                       (less bandwidth, more CPU).
                       (default value: false)

  PROTO              - Protocol that proxy is running on.  Uncomment this line
                       to define it manually.  If you leave this line
                       commented, the code detects if you are running on an
                       HTTPS connection.  If you are, then 'https' is used as
                       the PROTO value, otherwise 'http' is used.  If you need
                       a different value here, then define it.
                       (default value: undefined)

  SSL_WARNING_IGNORE_FILETYPES - ignored filetypes for SSL check
    (default values:'.css', '.js', '.gif', '.jpeg', '.jpg', '.png', '.bmp')


I.b.iii: Labels

The following options represent labels on the main page of the proxy.  By
changing these values you can modify the display into anything you want.

  TITLE             - title text above form
                      (default value: 'Surrogafier')

  URL               - text for URL text field
                      (default value: 'URL:')

  TUNNEL            - text for tunnel proxy text fields
                      (default value: 'Tunnel Proxy:')

  USER_AGENT        - text for user-agent select field
                      (default value: 'User-Agent:')

  USER_AGENT_CUSTOM - text for user-agent custom text field
                      (default value: null string)

  URL_FORM          - text for persistent URL form checkbox
                      (default value: 'Persistent URL Form';

  REMOVE_COOKIES    - text for remove cookies checkbox
                      (default value: 'Remove Cookies')

  REMOVE_REFERER    - text for remove referer checkbox
                      (default value: 'Remove Referer Field')

  REMOVE_SCRIPTS    - text for remove scripts checkbox
                      (default value: 'Remove Scripts (JS, VBS, etc)')

  REMOVE_OBJECTS    - text for remove objects checkbox
                      (default value: 'Remove Objects (Flash, Java, etc)')

  ENCRYPT_URLS      - text for encrypt URLs checkbox
                      (default value: 'Encrypt URLs')

  ENCRYPT_COOKIES   - text for encrypt cookies checkbox
                      (default value: 'Encrypt Cookies')

  ENCODE_HTML       - text for encode HTML checkbox
                      (default value: 'Encode HTML')

  SUBMIT_MAIN       - text for the main submit button
                      (default value: 'Surrogafy')

  SUBMIT_SIMPLE     - text for the simple submit button
                      (default value: 'Surrogafy')


I.b.iv: Style

The $STYLE configuration variable can be used to override CSS for the main page
of Surrogafier.  Likewise, the $STYLE_URL_FORM configuration variable can be
used to override CSS for the URL form.  EVERY entry is looped through and added
as if it were raw CSS.  This is free-form and can do whatever you want, so below
are only the default values of this variable.  You can add as many CSS entries
as you'd like.


I.b.iv.a: STYLE_URL_FORM

The default value for $STYLE_URL_FORM is to be completely blank.  Add entries as
you please.


I.b.iv.b: STYLE

The default values for $STYLE are shown below, with default values specified.
Some are blank, which means they are just there to give you an idea of what you
can do, since it describes what that field is.

  body - body of whole document
    font-family: bitstream vera sans, arial;
    margin: 0px;
    padding: 0px;

  form#proxy_form - <form>
    margin: 0px;
    padding: 0px;

  table#proxy_table - <table>
    margin: 0px;
    padding: 0px;
    margin-left: auto;
    margin-right: auto;

  td#proxy_title - the title text above form
    font-weight: bold;
    font-size: 1.4em;
    text-align: center;

  input.proxy_text - class for all text fields
    width: 100%;
    border: 1px solid #000000;

  select.proxy_select - class for all select fields
    width: 100%;
    border: 1px solid #000000;

  a.proxy_link - class for all proxy defined links
    color: #000000;

  input.proxy_submit - class for all submit buttons
    border: 1px solid #000000;
    background-color: #FFFFFF;

  input#proxy_submit_simple - the simple submit button
    (empty)

  input#proxy_submit_main - the main submit button
    width: 100%;

  input#proxy_tunnel_ip - the tunnel proxy ip field
    float: left;
    width: 73%;

  input#proxy_tunnel_port - the tunnel proxy port field
    float: right;
    width: 23%;

  a#proxy_link_author - the link for script information and a link to the author
    float: left;

  a#proxy_link_mode - the link for toggling modes
    float: right;


    I.c: Using Surrogafier
  --------------------------

To use the script, just enter the URL you want to send through the proxy, enter
in a proxy ip/port if you wish, and change all the other options to fit your
needs, and click "Surrogafy".  Most sites should work flawlessly with this web
proxy, but if a site does not work, please report it in the Surrogafier "Bugs"
forum, or email me at brad@bcable.net.


    I.d: But Wait...
  --------------------

Q: ... That's it?
A: Yeah, that's it... but just a few notes.  I have noticed a few installs of
   Surrogafier being installed on the firewalled computer of a network, then
   not being successful at getting around the firewall.  The idea is that you
   put Surrogafier on a server free of filtering, then connect to that server to
   bypass the firewall you are under.  Basically, the operators of said network
   must not have any filtering going on, AND the server must not reside in
   China or any other country which censors its population.  You may access a
   server with Surrogafier installed on it while you are residing in a place
   such as China to bypass the oppressive firewall.
